BENGALURU : The city is officially on a high alert after India's first Ebola case was detected in New Delhi. As a first step, the central government will establish an exclusive quarantine centre at the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases (RGICD) in south Bengaluru. The move has also been spurred due to the sizeable number of African nationals in the city.

The quarantine centre is a joint venture of the ministries of civil aviation, external affairs and health, with focus on international travellers.

Dr H C Ramesh, director, health and family welfare department, told TOI the facility will be in addition to the existing one at the RGICD, but will be set up on international standards. "The estimated cost of the project is Rs 4.5 crore," he said.

The quarantine centre will have negative room pressure, which is an isolation technique used in specialized hospitals and medical centres to prevent contaminations from room to room.

Suspect cases so far:

Since August this year, three Ebola suspects hailing from West Africa were brought from Kempegowda International Airport to RGICD. Two were found to be suffering from malaria and had no Ebola symptoms. The third was found to be suffering from fever. No suspect cases have been reported here since October.

"In these cases, two private hospitals had sent its OPD patients to the RGCID as the patients had just travelled from Nigeria. Evaluation can be done by any hospital to which the patient reports to. We found the patients to be suffering from malaria," said Dr Shashidhar Buggi, director, RGICD.

A 30-year-old man, who had travelled from Nigeria in September and was suffering from malaria, was also tested for Ebola. "His blood sample was sent to the National Institute of Virology in Pune and he tested negative," said Dr Buggi.

A week ago, a doctor and staff nurse from RGCID were sent to New Delhi for an exclusive training programme in dealing with Ebola cases. They have begun training hospital staff in RGICD.

"We are prepared to take up Ebola cases if any, as the quarantine centre in the hospital is ready," said Dr Buggi.

What is Ebola:

Ebola is a viral disease caused by the Ebola Virus. The disease is transmitted through bodily fluids, blood, contaminated medical materials such as needles or syringes, or even an infected animals which could be flies. It is not transmitted naturally through the air.

Where has it spread:

The infection was seen in 1976 in two simultaneous outbreaks, in Nzara, Sudan, and in Yambuku, Democratic Republic of Congo. The latter was in a village situated near the Ebola River, and the disease was named after it. Currently the infection is fast spreading across West Africa, Nigeria, Sierra Leone. Ebola, that has no known cure so far, spreads through close contacts.

What are the signs:

The symptoms of the virus begin two to three weeks after contraction and include nausea, fever, sore throat, muscle pains and headaches. It can lead to extreme cases of internal bleeding and adversely affects the intestinal tract. A blood test is conducted to trace the presence of virus. It can also be infected through needlestick injuries of the infected person.



Stay updated on the go with Times of India News App. Click here to download it for your device.
Post a comment
More from The Times of India	

    US woman on death row asks for huge meal before execution 20 Feb 2015
    Girlfriend, 2 others inject acid into youth, throw body into drain 14 Feb 2015
    Mobs targetted Muslim homes as cops looked on 29 Jan 2015
    King cobras fall into pit, female swallows mate 16 Feb 2015
    ‘Hindus lured and forced to convert’ 18 Feb 2015
    Shweta Basu-Prasad: I told myself 'Shweta is dead' - The Times of India 11 Feb 2015

Recommended by
Subscribe to Top News Newsletter
Get updates on the most important happening of the day

ALSO ON TOI

    Mann Ki Baat: PM Modi gives pe...
    Couples from impoverished fami...
    INS Sindhughosh collides with ...
    German Bakery blast convict al...
    Mamata’s aide Shibaji Panja gr...
    Mamata refuses responsibility ...
    Philately exhibition at Aero S...
    Corporate espionage case: Oppo...
    Advanced parachute capabilitie...
    UAVs get special slot in Aero ...
    Nitish Kumar takes oath as Bih...
    India secures release of pries...
    Congress to strongly oppose la...
    Gujarat: Visually-impaired exp...
    J&K: Security forces unearth a...

Follow the Times of India - City section
Search for News
Search
Recent Messages (0)
None of the comments have been up voted.
Connect with us
ICC Cricket World Cup 2015Budget 2015
Subscribe to our Newsletters
Top News
(Daily)
Tech News
(Daily)
Entertainment
(Daily)
Life & Style
(Daily)
Movie Review
(Weekly)
  
Hi there,
Login with your Facebook ID to see what your friends are reading on Times of India.
MOST POPULAR

    Read
    |
    Commented
    |
    Shared

From City

    Modi stars in Mulayam-Lalu show; PM warms up to political rivals at 'tilak' of MSY's grand nephew
    AAP MLAs clash with cops over kidnapping
    Once a TOI vendor in Bengaluru, IIM student rockets to MNC job
    Rs 1.50 cr worth of gold seized from two passengers

more
more
QUICKSTIR
7 Kheer Recipes To Cure 'Rampal Kheer Phobia'
7 Kheer Recipes To Cure 'Rampal Kheer Phobia'

    9 Great Philosophers And Their Inspiring Quotes!
    Powerful Poem On Our Obsession With Validation!
    Let's Honour These 7 Real Men On Int'l Men's Day

more from QuickStir»
Weather in Bengaluru
TIMES POINTS

    All
    TOI
    My Profile

Know more about Times Points
THE TIMES OF INDIA
Powered by INDIATIMES

    About us
    Advertise with us
    Terms of Use and Grievance Redressal Policy
    Privacy policy
    Feedback
    RSS
    Newsletter
    TOI Mobile
    ePaper
    Sitemap
    Archives

Other Times Group news sites
The Economic Times
इकनॉमिक टाइम्स | ઈકોનોમિક ટાઈમ્સ
Pune Mirror | Bangalore Mirror
Ahmedabad Mirror | ItsMyAscent
Education Times | Brand Capital
Mumbai Mirror | Times Now
Indiatimes | नवभारत टाइम्स
महाराष्ट्र टाइम्स | ವಿಜಯ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ
Go Green | NavGujarat Samay
Living and entertainment
Timescity | iDiva | Entertainment | Zoom
Healthmeup | Luxpresso | Gadget Reviews
Guylife | Online Songs

Interest Network
itimes | Email
Hot on the Web
World | Politics
Business | Sports
Entertainment
Science & Tech
New Cars
Budget 2015
Services
Book print ads | Online shopping | Free SMS | Website design | CRM | Tenders
Matrimonial | Ringtones | Astrology | Jobs | Tech Community | Property | Buy car
Bikes in India | Deals | Free Classifieds | Send money to India | Used Cars
Restaurants in Delhi | Movie Show Timings in Mumbai | Remit to India | Buy Mobiles
Listen Songs | News | Real Estate Developers

Trending Topics
Tata Bolt Price | Photogallery | You Tube | Delhi Travel Guide | Katrina Kaif Photos | Best Android Phones | Hindi Songs | Horoscope 2015 Predictions | iPhone 6 Price | Facebook | Sunny Leone Photos | Hindi News
Copyright © 2014 Bennett, Coleman & Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. For reprint rights: Times Syndication Service

Bengaluru
Fighting Ebola: What we can learn from Nigeria
» Read more
		
		
	
	
	
	
	
